#  API to convert likes and other badges to reward points that can be used for shopping.
Application rewards: 

Problem statement: Manual data entry is critical to many software applications. Software applications have user interfaces that make it easy for customers to input data via forms. Automation and usability enhancements haven’t really done away with human interactions. At the same time, integration of software and benefits of an ecosystem around a software offering is widely recognized as a significant contributor to its popularity as demonstrated by applications from those for mobile devices to online shopping. Rewards has been another factor in improving customer endearment and loyalty. This article explores how mundane data input activities could become more interesting with reward points. 

Solution: The reward points have long been a practice for shopping services such as online retail stores and credit card companies. The rewards service in this case, provides rewards summary and history information based on application user, points needed for next level, points needed for next free reward, points needed for re-evaluation etc. The rewards are proportional to the activity on the site or the application from the user. It is entirely user-driven and the incentives are also broken into classes to differentiate and appreciate the customers by their activities. 

Many organizations also promote a reward service for internal employees where recognitions from peers and management are translated to reward points that can be used towards the purchase of merchandise from stores participating in their benefits programs. In this case, the rewards are proportional to the recognition and popularity of the employee based on her achievements.  

There are numerous activities that users do such as filling out forms, sending out mails, posting and responding to queries on social forums and social engineering sites that goes unnoticed and often draining on the users’ screen activities throughout the day. The more these activities are tracked and rewarded, the more fulfilling the experience for the user.  It is also an opportunity to draw more traffic to a reward point-based store and a significant business appeal.  Many software applications such as for travel and expense reporting, job seeking and recruitment, software-based payments, and software resource provisioning have grown to become standard across Fortune 500 companies. A rewards-points-based store can easily aspire to become one such universally recognized Amazon of rewards. 

Care must be taken that the rewards are not misused as in the example from Amazon when Mr.Klug from San Mateo California bought Discovery Channel CDs from Amazon for a ticker price of $2,904,980,000 plus shipping and handling. Since he had an Amazon Visa three percent rewards card, he was entitled to roughly $87 million in rewards. Thankfully for Mr.Klug, his card was not charged by Amazon because as per their policy they don’t charge until the item is in packaging. 

Rewards point service and shopping is actually a very thin service because the shopping experience can come from online stores and only the rewards need to be overlaid over a selection of products. This becomes quite a business in itself because it taps into a new market. The architecture of the rewards service should enable any online shopping store such as Amazon to be used as backend but popularize programmability aspects of rewarding and connections to forms and other user interfaces. Distributed ledgers like Blockchain have their own rewarding scheme but the rewards point service should strive to create a flexible extensible rewards scheme of its own. With REST based api services and scriptability, the rewards service could become as to add to any user interface as a like button. 

Giving and receiving recognition in the form of rewards is an inherently human activity yet the recognition deficit is nearly two-thirds in the workplace primarily because they say they don’t know how to give recognition the right way. Academics say that our interaction with others has been about being either a taker, a matcher or a giver and in that order of popularity. A rewards service program is an opportunity to redress both the deficit and the means with a side-effect of a positive impact on the workforce. 

Courtesy: authenticrecognition.com  
